# Understanding Data Types


## Test your Knowledge


### 1. What type would you choose for the following “numbers”?


* A person’s telephone number 

    *string*

* A person’s height

   *double*

* A person’s age

   *int*

* A person’s gender (Male, Female, Prefer Not To Answer)

   *string*

* A person’s salary

   *decimal*

* A book’s ISBN

   *string*

* A book’s price

   *decimal*

* A book’s shipping weight

   *double*

* A country’s population

   *int*

* The number of stars in the universe

   *BigInteger*

* The number of employees in each of the small or medium businesses in the United Kingdom (up to about 50,000 employees per business)

   *int*

### 2. What are the difference between value type and reference type variables? What is boxing and unboxing?

   *Value types hold their data directly in memory, while reference types hold a reference to the data's location in memory. Value types include simple types such as int, bool, float, and char, as well as more complex types such as structs and enums. Value types are stored on the stack and are passed by value.*

   *Reference types include classes, interfaces, arrays, and delegates. Reference types are stored on the heap and are passed by reference. When you assign a reference type to a variable, you are actually assigning a reference to the object's location in memory, rather than copying the object itself.*

   *Boxing and unboxing are operations that allow you to convert between value types and reference types. Boxing is the process of converting a value type to a reference type by wrapping it in an object. Unboxing is the process of converting a reference type that was previously boxed back to its original value type.*

   *Boxing and unboxing can have a performance cost because they involve creating and destroying objects on the heap, which can be time-consuming. Therefore, it's important to use boxing and unboxing sparingly and only when necessary.*

### 3. What is meant by the terms managed resource and unmanaged resource in .NET

*Managed resources are automatically tracked by the .NET garbage collector and are released when they are no longer needed, which helps to prevent memory leaks and other resource-related issues.*

*On the other hand, unmanaged resources are resources that are not controlled by the .NET runtime environment. Examples of unmanaged resources include system resources like window handles, graphics device interface (GDI) objects, COM objects, and other external resources.*




### 4. Whats the purpose of Garbage Collector in .NET?

*The purpose of the Garbage Collector (GC) in .NET is to automatically manage the allocation and deallocation of memory for managed objects.*

*In .NET, when a new object is created, the GC allocates memory to store the object and tracks the object's location in memory. As the application continues to execute, the GC periodically checks which objects are no longer in use (i.e. are no longer referenced by any other object in the application) and releases the memory allocated for those objects.*






# Controlling Flow and Converting Types


## Test your Knowledge


### 1. What happens when you divide an int variable by 0?


### 2. What happens when you divide a double variable by 0?


### 3. What happens when you overflow an int variable, that is, set it to a value beyond its range?


### 4. What is the difference between x = y++; and x = ++y;?


### 5. What is the difference between break, continue, and return when used inside a loop statement?


### 6. What are the three parts of a for statement and which of them are required?


### 7. What is the difference between the = and == operators?


### 8. Does the following statement compile? for ( ; true; ) ;


### 9. What does the underscore _ represent in a switch expression?


### 10. What interface must an object implement to be enumerated over by using the foreach statement
